---
layout: single
title: nothing is free
---
# I had a thought last night in bed
It is strange that the ideas that I really need, and/or want, to write down cometo me when I'm about to close my eyes and try to go to bed. I think that I have come up with an idea that is interesting. It might just be interesting to me, or it might already have been thought of before, but here it goes. I  don't think that there is any such thing as a free market any more. There probably was at one point in time. I'm sure that there was a certain point in history where anyone was able to enter the "market" and start to buy/sell goods. I'm sure that it wasn't easy. I'm sure that lots of people died, but my guess was that the market was "free" to enter in a monetary or labor sense. The only requirement for entering the market was that you had to figure out how to create a good or a service that was wanted. That is still probably the requirement today, but it's different now. Now in order to enter into a business, in order to get a job, or in order to be paid to do something you have to be specialized.

I believe this is going to be more and more normal. This specialization requirement is going to prevent any idea of freedom. How can you get a job doing something that will allow you to support yourself? First you have to get some type of training. Want to be a blacksmith? Well you had better find an apprenticeship. Guess what, there are not many blacksmith apprenticeships. My guess is that they are incredibly difficult to get into. Want to be a professional... anything? You had better know what you want to do ten years before you expect to be able to do that. You have to start acquiring prerequisites. You have to start collecting people who will say that you really can do what you say you can do.

You're also competing against everyone else in this world. One of the joys of the internet is that you more or less can communicate with anyone and everyone on the planet. It's an amazing technological marvel! On the other hand it also means that you can apply for hundreds, if not thousands of jobs relatively easily. You can do this. I can do this. Everyone with access to a computer and the internet can. We've given all the power to the hirers. This allows for companies and corporations to choose from a very large work force and potentially to choose the best people for the jobs. However, what about everyone else? Unless you're able to show and prove that you're the best, you're hoping that you're some company's consolation prize because they're not the best either.

But here comes the kicker, in order to be sure that you are the best you have to be ultra-specialized. That way no one can do the same things as you and then you don't have any competition. It doesn't matter if you're actually good at what you do because there isn't any competition. This doesn't result in a meritocracy. I don't think that this results in anything close to a "free" market.

# How do I show that this is "t"rue
I think that the lower case t is important here. There are lots of ways in which we, as a society, have gone beyond capital "T" truthiness. However I also think that it should be possible to extract common experiences and expectations from our lives which could draw us all together. I'd like to create several principles to base everything on. Three would be the perfect number of principles to have.
